---
layout: post
title:  "Choose Your Own Adventure: Python Edition"
date:   2022-08-03
author: Austin Carter
description: A tutorial, with code examples, of how to create a branching paths story in python.
image: /assets/images/blog-image(1).jpg
---

Have you ever read a "Chose Your Own Adventure Story" where you make choices and flip through the pages to the part corresponding wiht your choice? They are a great deal of fun and you can create a modern rendition wiht some simple code. This is possible to do in many coding languages, but i'm going to focus on using python is this tutorial. 

**Step 1: Draw your Decision Tree**
  The most important factor in a "Choose Your Own Adventure" is the choices you give to the participant. It's best to plan out these decisions and their possible outcomes before you start to code. 
  
**Step 2: Create Variables to Store the Decisions**
  A good place to start on the code is the decision variables. For every decision in the tree, name a variables and set it equal to the input() function. Inside the input function, in quotes, you can put the prompt for the question the partipant is answering. The input() function will first print the prompt you put inside of it, and the function will wait for a response before moving on to next line of code.

**Step 3: How to Only Accept Valid Inputs**
  In some cases, such as asking the participant for their name, we dont want to restrict inputs the particpant can use. However, in most cases we are looking for a specific answer. For example, we may ask a "yes" or "no" question to the particpant. This valid answers the partipant can give should be given in the prompt from step 2. The simplest solution here is an "do-while" loop. To do this we want to have an "while" statement that sets the deciscion variable **not** equal to the possbile answers your looking for. Put the possible snawers in quotes and seperate them by "and". The code in the loop should simply be your code you used to initialize the decision. You can also add text in that tells the partipant to etry again.  
**Step 4: Two Ways to Move From Branch to Branch**
  
